Hi all,

For my first blog post here on Blockchain Gang blog, I'll be writing about why I got started with blockchain technologies, telling you a bit about myself and my interests.
As it happens, it's pure peer pressure. In the form of not understanding what my friends are talking about on our beer-fueled hangouts. Jokes aside (while that kind of thing piqued my interest), I started to get into it as I came to understand what blockchain technologies are about. And it's about the things I like, mostly focused on the technological aspect.

Anonimity of transactions. I have some background in the financial world and so I understand the role the central, trusted third party plays in transactions of electronic currency.  I won't be going into details here as to why a trusted third party is necessary, but the idea is to solve the double spending problem. In short, a trusted third party oversees and keeps a record of transactions to ensure any amount of money is only spent once - an idiosyncrasy of electronic currencies.
Looking at it from a privacy-perspective, a third party that is neither of the two parties actually involved in a transaction (the sender and the receiver) knows the details and participants of the transaction. Me being into privacy, this context rubs me the wrong way (although, not so much that I don't use traditional electronic payment systems). The idea that this could be avoided drew me towards blockchain (or rather, bitcoin).

Peer-to-peer network. Back in the good old days of piracy (i.e. before the popularity of current streaming services) I had my introduction with peer-to-peer systems. Naturally, it attracted a young soul who likes the idea of a connected, harmonious world where you don't have to pay for stuff. Older now, such ideas still interest me. A peer-to-peer network has its idiosyncrasies that the more common client-server architecture does not. It has its strengths, like robustness against node failures, and weaknesses too, like vulnerability to remote exploits. It needs users that don't just consume (as clients) but give back (as servers) - it's a picture of a connected world of collaborators (I guess I'm still young).

Being on the forefront of tech progress. I often hear the statement that "blockchain today is what the Internet was in the 90-ies". And I wonder just what kind of future people see for blockchain 30 years from now when they say this. At best, I can only see a little part of this picture right now. Even the experts in the area are sure to get several nontrivial parts wrong. There's a common trend when people make predictions of technological progress: progress estimates for the next 5 to 10 years usually overestimate, while progress estimates in periods of several decades often severely underestimate. It's not wrong to say no one knows exactly where this train is going, yet more and more people keep hopping on it for the ride. Exciting, no? Looking toward what comes, taking part in it as it grows, looking back on what it's become. Let's just see where we end up.

Gene A.
